= Spending =

Welcome to spending.git.  This repository contains records of how
Student Robotics's money has been spent.

== Transactions ==

A "transaction" is an event when some money leaves the Student
Robotics account.  A transaction appears as a single row on our bank
statement.

spending.git contains detailed information about each transaction.
Within spending.git, some transactions will be split into several
transactions.  There are frequent situations in which this make sense.
For example, the following situations should result in transactions
being split up:

 1. The transaction involves funds from multiple budget lines.
 2. The transaction involves multiple purchasing tickets.

From this point onwards, the _whole_set_ of transactions relating to
one line of our bank statement will be referred to as a "bank-level
transaction".

A transaction is represented by a YAML file containing the following
set of mandatory properties:

 - summary: Single line description of the transaction.
 - description: Long description of the transaction.
 - budget: The budget line that this transaction is from.
 - cost: The cost of this transaction.
 - trac: The number of the relevant purchasing ticket in Trac

The following set of properties are optional:

 - inventory-items: A list of the inventory items that the transaction
                    'created'.  If the transaction created inventory
                    items, this is a mandatory property.
 - cheque: The number of the cheque involved in the transaction.

== Directory Structure: Transaction Filing ==

So, you've created a set of transaction files.  Where should they go?

Firstly, it depends on the state of the transaction.  Often we'll know
that we've spent the money, but haven't yet got a statement from the
bank telling us exactly when or how much left the account.  These
transactions are "pending" and should therefore live in the "pending"
subdirectory of spending.git.  Pending transactions can be put inside
subdirectories of the pending directory if it's convenient.

Once our bank has caught up with us, and we know the date of a
transaction, the transaction file needs moving into another
directory.  The location of this directory is influenced by two
things:

 1) The date of the transaction.
 2) Whether the transaction was lumped together with some others into
    a single bank-level transaction.

If the transaction was not lumped together with others, it should be
moved into a directory with the path:

 /YYYY/MM/DD/

(Where those are the year, month, and date...)

If the transactions was lumped together with others, an extra level of
hierarchy is added to perform this grouping:

 /YYYY/MM/DD/NAME/

Where "NAME" in the above can be replaced by a (very) short summary of
why they're being split up (like one or two words).


